**Seeding Power Points Documentation (SPP)**
Patrick Marinich

**Note** - This is currently the main way that our Power Rankings are determined :)

**Motivation** - Seeding Power Points is a way to try to best determine who the overall best Kartnite Player is at any given time. Each individual Stat that has both been calculated and created has their pros and cons, Seeding Power Points is a way to attempt to fix all of the imperfections of each individual stat. 

How is it calculated?

Seeding Power Points uses the leaderboards generated by specific individual statistics to grant points. 

The Stats currently being used and their weightings are:
 - Kart Score (3)
 - Kart Rating (4)
 - Miscellenous Score (1)
(These are subject to change as new stats are being created and utilized)

How it works is that all of these leaderboards are generated, and each player is given points based on their position on each leaderboard. For example if there are currently 10 players in the Kartnite Stats Database, then the player in first on the Kart Score leaderboard would be given 10 points, the player in second 9 points and ect. This value is then multiplied by their weighting for said stat. This is then done for each of the leaderboards and they are summed together to create a Players Seeding Power Point total. 

The Player with the most seeding power points is determined to be the overall best player! Seeding Power Points up to this point has done a great job of determining who the best players are and their order of skill. The only down side to this is that on the actual SPP leaderboard it is almost impossible to tell how close players are to one another. Due to the nature of its creation players that are 10 power points away may actually be incredibly close to one another in every statistical category, but one of the two is just barely ahead of the other. In contrast a player could only be 1 or 2 points ahead of another but be miles ahead as they have certain leaderboards locked up. SPP has proven to be a great stat for the ordering of skill, but is not a great determination on how close each plyer is to one another in the current moment. 



